# Creating and Manipulating Strings

The String class is such a fundamental class that you'd be hard-pressed to write code without it.

In Java, these two snippets both create a String:

    String name = "Fluffy";
    String name = new String("Fluffy");

Further, text blocks are another way of creating a String.

    String name = """
                  Fluffy""";

## Concatenating

Placing one String before the other String and combining them is called string concatenation.

- If both operands are numeric , + means numeric addition.
- If either operand is a String, + means concatenation.
- The expression is evaluated left to right.

  System.out.println(1 + 2);
  System.out.println("a" + "b");
  System.out.println("a" + "b" + 3);
  System.out.println(1 + 2 + "c");
  System.out.println("c" + 1 + 2);
  System.out.println("c" + null);

The exam takes trickery a step further and will try to fool you with something like this:

    int three = 3;
    String four = "4";
    System.out.println(1 + 2 + three + four);

In this example, you just have to remember what += does.

## Important String Methods

### Determining the Length

The method length() returns the number of characters in the String.

    public int length()

    var name = "animals"; 
    System.out.println(name.length()); // 7

### Getting a Single Character

The method charAt() lets you query the string to find out what character is at a specific index.

    public char charAt(int index)

    var name = "animals"; 
    System.out.println(name.charAt(0)); // a 
    System.out.println(name.charAt(6)); // s 
    System.out.println(name.charAt(7)); // exception

### Finding an Index

The method indexOf() looks at the characters in the string and finds the first index that matches the desired value. 

    public int indexOf(int ch)

    public int indexOf(int ch, int fromIndex) 
    public int indexOf(String str)
    public int indexOf(String str, int fromIndex)


    var name = "animals";
    System.out.println(name.indexOf('a')); // 0
    System.out.println(name.indexOf("al")); // 4
    System.out.println(name.indexOf('a', 4)); // 4
    System.out.println(name.indexOf("al", 5)); // -1
