# Initializing Variables

Before you can use a variable, it needs a value. Some types of variables get this value set automatically, and others
require the programmer to specify it.

## Creating Local Variables

A local variable is a variable defined within a constructor, method, or initializer block.

### Final Local Variables

The final keyword can be applied to local variables and is equivalent to declaring constants in other languages.

```
final int y = 10;
int x = 20;
y = x + 10; // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

The final modifier can also be applied to local variable references.

```
final int[] favoriteNumbers = new int[10];
favoriteNumbers[0] = 10;
favoriteNumbers[1] = 20;
favoriteNumbers = null; // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

Notice that we can modify the content, or data, in the array.

### Uninitialized Local Variables

Local variables do not have a default value and must be initialized before use. Furthermore, the compiler will report an
error if you try to read an uninitialized value

```
public int notValid() {
    int y = 10;
    int x;
    int reply = x + y; // DOES NOT COMPILE 
    return reply;
}
```

The compiler is smart enough to recognize variables that have been initialized after their declaration but before they
are used.

```
public int valid() {
    int y = 10;
    int x; // x is declared here
    x = 3; // x is initialized here
    int z; // z is declared here but never initialized or used

    int reply = x + y;
    return reply;
}
```

The compiler is also smart enough to recognize initializations that are more complex. In this example, there are two
branches of code:

    public void findAnswer(boolean check) {
        int answer;
        int otherAnswer;
        int onlyOneBranch;
        if (check) {
            onlyOneBranch = 1;
            answer = 1;
        } else {
            answer = 2;
        }
        System.out.println(answer);
        System.out.println(onlyOneBranch); // DOES NOT COMPILE
    }

The answer variable is initialized in both branches of the if statement, so the compiler is perfectly happy. It knows
that regardless of whether check is true or false, the value answer will be set to something before it is used. The
otherAnswer variable is not initialized but never used, and the compiler is equally as happy. Remember, the compiler is
only concerned if you try to use uninitialized local variables; it doesn’t mind the ones you never use.

The onlyOneBranch variable is initialized only if check happens to be true. The compiler knows there is the possibility
for check to be false, resulting in uninitialized code, and gives a compiler error.

On the exam, be wary of any local variable that is declared but not initial- ized in a single line. This is a common
place on the exam that could result in a “Does not compile” answer. Be sure to check to make sure it’s initial- ized
before it’s used on the exam.

## Passing Constructor and Method Parameters

Variables passed to a constructor or method are called constructor parameters or method parameters, respectively.

```
public void findAnswer(boolean check) {
}
public void checkAnswer() {
    boolean value;
    findAnswer(value); // DOES NOT COMPILE
}
```

The call to findAnswer() does not compile because it tries to use a variable that is not initialized.

## Defining Instance and Class Variables

An instance variable, often called a field, is a value defined within a specific instance of an object.

On the other hand, a class variable is one that is defined on the class level and shared among all instances of the
class.

Instance and class variables do not require you to initialize them. As soon as you declare these variables, they are
given a default value.
The compiler doesn’t know what value to use and so wants the simplest value it can give the type: null for an object,
zero for the numeric types, and false for a boolean. You don’t need to know the default value for char, but in case you
are curious, it is '\u0000' (NUL).

## Inferring the Type with var

You have the option of using the keyword var instead of the type when declaring local variables under certain
conditions.

```
public class Zoo {
    public void whatTypeAmI() {
        var name = "Hello";
        var size = 7;
    }
}
```

The formal name of this feature is local variable type inference. You can only use this feature for local variables.

```
public class VarKeyword {
    var tricky = "Hello"; // DOES NOT COMPILE
}
```

### Type Inference of var

When you type var, you are instructing the compiler to determine the type for you. The compiler looks at the code on the
line of the declaration and uses it to infer the type.

```
public void reassignment() {
    var number = 7;
    number = 4;
    number = "five"; // DOES NOT COMPILE
}
```

If you know a language like JavaScript, you might be expecting var to mean a variable that can take on any type at
runtime. In Java, var is still a specific type defined at compile time. It does not change type at runtime.

You could insert a line break between the variable name and its initialization value.

```
public void breakingDeclaration() {
    var silly
            = 1;
}
```

### Examples with var

```
public void doesThisCompile(boolean check) {
    var question;
    question = 1;

    var answer;
    if (check) {
        answer = 2;
    } else {
        answer = 3;
    }

    System.out.println(answer);
}
```

The code does not compile. Remember that for local variable type inference, the compiler looks only at the line with the
declaration.
Since question and answer are not assigned values on the lines where they are defined, the compiler does not know what
to make of them.

```
public void twoTypes() {
    int a, var b = 3; // DOES NOT COMPILE // We couldn’t write int a, int v = 3; either.
    var n = null; // DOES NOT COMPILE
}
```

While a var cannot be initialized with a null value without a type, it can be reassigned a null value after it is
declared, provided that the underlying data type is a reference type.

```
public int addition(var a, var b) { // DOES NOT COMPILE
    return a + b;
}
```

In this example, a and b are method parameters. Remember that var is only used for local variable type inference!

There’s one last rule you should be aware of: var is not a reserved word and allowed to be used as an identifier. It is
considered a reserved type name. A reserved type name means it cannot be used to define a type, such as a class,
interface, or enum.

```
package var;

public class Var {

    public void var() {
        var var = "var";
    }

    public void Var() {
        Var var = new Var();
    }
}

```

**var in the Real World**

The var keyword is great for exam authors because it makes it easier to write tricky code. When you work on a real
project, you want the code to be easy to read.

```
PileOfPapersToFileInFilingCabinet pileOfPapersToFile =
new PileOfPapersToFileInFilingCabinet();

var pileOfPapersToFile = new PileOfPapersToFileInFilingCabinet();

```