# Managing Variable Scope

How many variables do you see that are scoped to this method?

    public void eat(int piecesOfCheese) {
        int bitesOfCheese = 1;
    }

There are two variables with local scope. The bitesOfCheese variable is declared inside the method. The piecesOfCheese
variable is a method parameter. Neither variable can be used outside of where it is defined.

## Limiting Scope

Local variables can never have a scope larger than the method they are defined in.

```
   public void eatIfHungry(boolean hungry) {
        if (hungry) {
            int bitesOfCheese = 1;
        } // bitesOfCheese goes out of scope here

        System.out.println(bitesOfCheese); // DOES NOT COMPILE
    }
```

Remember that blocks can contain other blocks. These smaller contained blocks can reference variables defined in the
larger scoped blocks, but not vice versa.

```
    public void eatIfHungry(boolean hungry) {
        if (hungry) {
            int bitesOfCheese = 1;
            {
                var teenyBit = true;
                System.out.println(bitesOfCheese);
            }
        }
        System.out.println(teenyBit); // DOES NOT COMPILE
    }
```

## Tracing Scope

The exam will attempt to trick you with various questions on scope.

    public void eatMore(boolean hungry, int amountOfFood) {
        int roomInBelly = 5;
        if (hungry) {
            var timeToEat = true;
            while (amountOfFood > 0) {
                int amountEaten = 2;
                roomInBelly = roomInBelly - amountEaten;
                amountOfFood = amountOfFood - amountEaten;
            }
        }
        System.out.println(amountOfFood);
    }

Identifying blocks and variable scope needs to be second nature for the exam.

## Applying Scope to Classes

The rule for instance variables is easier: they are available as soon as they are defined and last for the entire
lifetime of the object itself. The rule for class, aka static, variables is even easier: they go into scope when
declared like the other variable types. However, they stay in scope for the entire life of the program.

    public class Mouse {

        final static int MAX_LENGTH = 5;
        int length;
    
        public void grow(int inches) {
            if (length < MAX_LENGTH) {
                int newSize = length + inches;
                length = newSize;
            }
        }
    }

In this class, we have one class variable, MAX_LENGTH; one instance variable, length; and two local variables, inches
and newSize. The MAX_LENGTH variable is a class variable because it has the static keyword in its declaration.

## Reviewing Scope

- Local Variables :In scope from declaration to the end of the block.
- Method parameters: In scope for the duration of the method.
- Instance variables: In scope from declaration until the object is eligible for garbage collection.
- Class variables: In scope from declaration until the program ends